---
description: Ethereum - Substrate account Mapping
---

# Accounts Mapping

EVM pallet enables the Ethereum EVM capabilities on a native Substrate chain. To make use of EVM similar to any EVM-based blockchain, one should understand how an Ethereum account is mapped relative to the Substrate chain.

### Ethereum / SNOW Address Conversion tool

Head over to the [**SNOW address converter**](https://snow-address-converter.netlify.app/) **** ([_**Source Code**_](https://github.com/sharma66mahesh/ss58-h160-converter-react)) to easily convert your Ethereum address to Substrate/SNOW address and vice versa.

Just select the input address format from the dropdown and enter the selected input format address in the input field and click on go. For example:

* Select the input address format to H160(ethereum)
* Enter your Ethereum address and click on go
* You will get your equivalent SS58(substrate) address
* In my case H160, SS58, Public Key and SNOW address were:

> H160 address: 0x7c0f5F59A22B657C8D9E21b44D2Dc0118fD2BE7B
>
> SS58 address: 5DLri6vcHLAGAs3kQFoE8wP9cG4gHfcqmNrFVZJT2tNMQREX
>
> Public Key: 0x388df59fae952b4e08b8a7b13a5dba9df0151e7ccdd8f897d2fe1e2413c71278
>
> SNOW address: nhyYBGP1JvqpB7v8wpwFGWVu1HKJe965TPMw3A8m54j6ih9wL

### Ethereum (H160) to SNOW Address Mapping

Every Ethereum address(20-byte) on the EVM is mapped with a unique public key(32-byte) on the Substrate chain, which acts as a proxy to maintain balance for the Ethereum address. This unique public key can be encoded to SNOW address format, which is generated deterministically from the Ethereum address on funding.

{% hint style="info" %}
**Sample SNOW address**: ni3NqFqifz5csgiuFmKFQz8KKGBZsENGyvkSXMKdSxw76LpZo
{% endhint %}

The deterministically generated ss58 address is generated by the following steps:

* Consider a 20-byte Ethereum address: `0x6be02d1d3665660d22ff9624b7be0551ee1ac91b`.
* Add bytes of `evm:` as prefix and concat it with the 20-byte Ethereum address bytes.
* Perform `blake2b` Hash on the concatenated bytes. This hash is the `public key` associated with the H160 address.
* Convert the hashed Hex to `SNOW address format` base address to get the Mapping Substrate account.

Alternatively, one can run the script([substrate-address.js](https://github.com/web3labs/ice-network/blob/main/utils/substrate-address.js)) provided available with this repo, to generate a Substrate address from the Ethereum address.

### **SNOW address to H160 address mapping**

H160 address is simply the first 20 bytes of the Substrate public key. This mapping is direct and deterministic which simplifies the address translation.

> **For Example**\
> The SS58 address **nhyMVM8op8o7ujq7Mvs6ojUV3cckpwfpsMd4HC47Awbmkjv5X** has 32 byte public key **0x306721211d5404bd9da88e0204360a1a9ab8b87c66c1bc2fcdd37f3c2222cc20**.\
> This account’s equivalent Ethereum address will be **0x306721211d5404bd9da88e0204360a1a9ab8b87c**.

### Balance Mapping

Whenever the base Substrate account is funded with some units. A new account is created automatically (_if it doesn't exist_) & funds will be transferred from the source account to the receiver account.

During any transaction on the EVM, the funds are used by default from the mapped-Substrate address, the EVM always translates the 20-byte Ethereum address to the deterministically generated SS58 address.

To fund the Ethereum/Substrate account with Faucet on Arctic Testnet, Please refer [**here**](../build/faucet/#funding-substrate-account-with-icz-testnet).&#x20;
